Psalm 73-78
Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart.
But as for me my feet were almost gone, my steps had well nigh slipped,
for I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
For there are no bands in their death, but their strength is firm.
They are not in trouble as other men, neither are they plagued like other men.
Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain, violence covereth them as a garment.
Their eyes stand out with fatness, they have more than heart could wish.
They are corrupt and speak wickedly concerning oppression, they speak loftily.
They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth.
Therefore his people return hither, and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.
And they say, How doth God know? and is their knowledge in the most high?
Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world, they increase in riches.
Verily, I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency.
For all the day long have I been plagued and chastened every morning.
If I say, I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children.
When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me.
Until I went into the sanctuary of God, then understood I their end.
Surely thou didst set them as slippery places, thou castedst them down into destruction.
How they are brought into desolation, as in a moment.
They are utterly consumed with terrors.
As a dream, when one awaketh, so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their
image.
Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.
So foolish was I, and ignorant, I was as a beast before thee.
Nevertheless, I am continually with thee, thou hast holden me by my right hand.
Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
Whom have I in heaven but thee, and there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee.
My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion forever.
For lo, they that are far from thee shall perish, thou hast destroyed all them that
go a-whoring from thee.
But it is good for me to draw near to God.
I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all thy works.
Psalm 74 O God, why hast thou cast us off forever?
Why dost thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?
Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old, the rod of thine inheritance,
which thou hast redeemed, this Mount Zion wherein thou hast dwelt.
Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations, even all that the enemy hath done wickedly
in the sanctuary.
Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations, they set up their ensigns for signs.
A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick trees.
But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers.
They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by casting down the dwelling
place of thy name to the ground.
They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together, they have burned up all the
synagogues of God in the land.
We see not our signs, there is no more any prophet, neither is there among us any that
knoweth how long.
O God, how long shall the adversary reproach?
Shall the enemy blaspheme thy name forever?
Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand?
Pluck it out of thy bosom.
For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.
Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength, thou breakest the heads of the dragons in
the waters, thou breakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be meat to the
people inhabiting the wilderness.
Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood, thou driedst up mighty rivers.
The day is thine, the night also is thine, thou hast prepared the light and the sun,
thou hast set all the borders of the earth, thou hast made summer and winter.
Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O Lord, and that the foolish people have blasphemed
thy name.
O, deliver not the soul of thy turtle dove unto the multitude of the wicked, forget not
the congregation of thy poor forever.
Have respect unto the covenant, for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations
of cruelty.
O, let not the oppressed return ashamed, let the poor and needy praise thy name.
Arise, O God, clean thine own cause, remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily.
Forget not the voice of thine enemies, the tumult of those that rise up against thee
increaseth continually.
Psalm 75
Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks, for that thy name
is near thy wondrous works declare.
When I shall receive the congregation, I will judge uprightly.
The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved, I bear up the pillars of it,
salah.
I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly, and to the wicked, lift not up the horn, lift
not up your horn on high, speak not with a stiff neck, for a promotion comes neither
from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south.
But God is the judge, he putteth down one, and setteth up another.
For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup, and the wine is red, it is full of mixture,
and he poureth out of the same, but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth, shall
wring them out and drink them.
But I will declare, for ever, I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off, but the horns of the righteous shall
be exalted.
Psalm 76
In Judah is God known, his name is great in Israel.
In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion.
There break he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle, salah.
Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey.
The stout-hearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep, and none of the men of might
have found their hands.
At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep.
Thou, even thou, art to be feared, and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art
angry?
Thou didst cause judgments to be heard from heaven.
The earth feared and was still.
When God arose to judgment to save all the meek of the earth, salah, surely the wrath
of man shall praise thee, the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain.
Vow and pay unto the Lord your God, let all that be round about him bring presents unto
him that ought to be feared.
He shall cut off the spirit of princes, he is terrible to the kings of the earth.
Psalm 77
I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voice, and he gave ear unto me.
In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord, my sore ran in the night, and ceased not,
my soul refused to be comforted.
I remembered God and was troubled.
I complained and my spirit was overwhelmed, salah.
Thou holdest mine eyes waking, I am so troubled that I cannot speak.
I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.
I called to remembrance my song in the night, I communed with mine own heart, and my spirit
made diligent search.
Will the Lord cast off for ever, and will he be favorable no more?
Is his mercy clean gone for ever?
Doth his promise fail for ever more?
Hath God forgotten to be gracious?
Hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies?
Salah.
And I said this is my infirmity, but I will remember the years of the right hand of the
Most High.
I will remember the works of the Lord, surely I will remember thy works of old.
I will meditate also of all thy works, and talk of thy doings.
Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary, who is so great a God as our God.
Thou art the God that doest wonders, thou hast declared thy strength among the people.
Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph.
Salah.
The waters saw thee, O God.
The waters saw thee, they were afraid, the depths also were troubled.
The clouds poured out water.
The skies sent out a sound, thine arrows also went abroad.
The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven.
The lightnings lightened the world, the earth trembled and shook.
Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known.
Thou lettest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Psalm 78.
Give ear, O my people, to my law, incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
I will open my mouth in a parable, I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard
and known and our fathers have told us.
We will not hide them from their children, shewing to the generation to come the praises
of the Lord, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done.
For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded
our fathers that they should make them known to their children.
That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born, who
should arise and declare them to their children.
That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his
commandments, and might not be as their fathers a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation
that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not steadfast with God.
The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.
They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law, and forgot his works,
and his wonders that he showed them.
Marvelous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt in the field
of Zohan.
He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through, and he made the waters to stand as
in heap.
In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire.
He claved the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out of the great depths.
He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.
And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the Most High in the wilderness, and they
tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust.
Yea, they spake against God, they said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness?
Behold he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed.
Can he give bread also?
Can he provide flesh for his people?
Therefore the Lord heard this, and was wroth.
So a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel, because they
believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation.
Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven, and had rained
down manna upon them to eat, and had given them of the corn of heaven.
Man did eat angels' food, he sent them meat to the fold.
He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven, and by his power he brought in the south wind.
He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea.
And he let it fall in the midst of their camp round about their habitations.
So they did eat, and were well filled, for he gave them their own desire.
They were not estranged from their lust.
But while their meat was yet in their mouth, the wrath of God came upon them, and slew
the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen men of Israel.
For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works.
Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble.
When he slew them, then they sought him, and they returned, and inquired early after God.
And they remembered that God was their Rock, and the High God their Redeemer.
Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto him with their tongues.
For their heart was not right with him, neither were they steadfast in his covenant.
But he, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and destroyed them not.
Yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath.
For he remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again.
How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve him in the desert.
Yea, they turned back, and tempted God, and limited the Holy One of Israel.
They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them from the enemy.
How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zohan,
and had turned their rivers into blood, and their floods that they could not drink.
He sent diverse sorts of flies among them, which devoured them, and frogs which destroyed them.
He gave also their increase unto the caterpillar, and their labor unto the locust.
He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycamore trees with frost.
He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.
He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation,
and trouble by sending evil angels among them.
He made a way to his anger, he spared not their soul from death,
but gave their life over to the pestilence.
And smote all the first born in Egypt, the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham,
but made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
And he led them on safely, so that they feared not, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this mountain,
which his right hand had purchased.
He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them in inheritance by line,
and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.
Yet they tempted and provoked the Most High God, and kept not his testimonies.
But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers,
they were turned aside like a deceitful bow,
for they provoked him to anger with their high places,
and moved him to jealousy with their graven images.
When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel,
so that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he placed among men.
And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the enemy's hand.
He gave his people over also unto the sword, and was wroth with his inheritance.
The fire consumed their young men, and their maidens were not given to marriage.
Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows made no lamentation.
Then the Lord awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine.
And he smote his enemies in the hindered parts, he put them to a perpetual reproach.
Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim,
but chose the tribe of Judah, the mountain Zion which he loved.
And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth which he hath established forever.
He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds.
From following the ooze great with young, he brought him to feed Jacob his people,
and Israel his inheritance.
So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart,
and guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.